Local storage is a way of stored data permanently for your website or mobile app on the user's computer
or phone.
It's pretty easy to use.
And I'm just going to get rid of all our code here to avoid any confusion because what we're doing here
is not unique to us by any means but I am going to keep the Zapato.
J.S. so that we can use the jey query features
that we get so
let's just show that and that should be closed script with a type of text javascript.
All right so the first thing that you should do before using local storage is check that the browser
supports it because some browsers don't and you don't want to be assuming that you'll use a browser
does and then have your app not work properly.
So we check that it works using IF and then typeof and then we look at the storage
variable.
And if that's not equal to undefined
then we get to go.
So for now I would just alert local storage is guy
and if it's not supported then you might want to alert something please upgrade your browser or something
like that to let the user know that the local storage features of your app are not going to work.
So let's have a look.
Local storage is go fantastic.
That should certainly be the case for pretty much any modern browser that you use.
So then how do we use local storage as I say it's pretty straightforward to save an item in local storage.
We just use set item.
So local storage with a capital S does set item and then we might want to set the user's name
to be Rob.
Simple as that.
And then if we want to get it back we just use local storage to get item and then name.
Let's take a look.
Should a.
Rob.
That's great but it's nothing too special until we comment out that first line and then we run the app
again and it still knows who I am and indeed we can even shut the browser tab down open it up again.
And it still knows who I am.
So this is really a permanent story.
Unless your user actively cleans their browser cache which they can't actually do if you're working
in a mobile app anyway then you really can assume that this is permanent storage.
So that's pretty much all there is to it except you might want to do arrays in local storage and that's
not that straightforward.
So I'm going to set you a challenge to go online and figure out how to store and retrieve an array in
local storage for
have you managed it.
Let's do a quick Google.
So I'd give something like local storage save Auray And here we go javascript how to store an array
in local storage so local storage only supports strings.
So we'd need to essentially convert our right to Jaison and convert it back in order to save it in local
storage.
So this looks pretty good.
Let's use this code so Cummins out both of those lines.
So we're setting up an empty array called names and then we're creating a prompt that we haven't actually
used before.
But this is just like an alert that it allows the user to enter some data and it sets that equal to
the first item in the array.
And then it sets the item names within local storage to Jaison version of the array names and then to
get it back.
We use store names Jason pass so that converts it from Jason to an array and then we just use local
storage get item and then the Jason kind of names and then to check that that's worked.
Let's get names.
Zero.
So that should be equal to the name.
I'm just about to enter.
OK here we go.
So let's have a different name just for fun.
Kirsten and then it's saved it as customer.
And then let's just alert store names 0 just to prove to ourselves that we have indeed gotten it right
here and that the zero value is what I'm just about to enter.
So let's have a look.
I'll put in Keston and there we go.
That's looking promising but of course the real proof of the pudding is that if we comment out the code
to save the array and we just retrieve it we still get the data back.
Wonderful.
So that's how we use local storage to save and retrieve variables and arrays.
We are now in a position to create our email client app.